[Docs] Add 1.27 generative-friendliai docs (#1)
friendliai/weaviate-io: developers/weaviate/model-providers/friendliai/index.md

import BetaPageNote from '../_includes/beta_pages.md';

<BetaPageNote />

:::info Added in `v1.27.0`
:::

FriendliAI offers a wide range of models for natural language processing and generation. Weaviate seamlessly integrates with FriendliAI's APIs, allowing users to leverage FriendliAI's models directly within the Weaviate database.

These integrations empower developers to build sophisticated AI-driven applications with ease.

## Integrations with FriendliAI

### Generative AI models for RAG

![Single prompt RAG integration generates individual outputs per search result](../_includes/integration_friendliai_rag_single.png)

FriendliAI's generative AI models can generate human-like text based on given prompts and contexts.

[Weaviate's generative AI integration](./generative.md) enables users to perform Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) directly within the Weaviate database. This combines Weaviate's efficient storage and fast retrieval capabilities with FriendliAI's generative AI models to generate personalized and context-aware responses.

Visit [FriendliAI generative AI integration page](./generative.md) for more information on our integrations with FriendliAI.

## Summary

> These integrations enable developers to leverage FriendliAI's powerful models directly within Weaviate.

Reviewer: need rewrite. our selling point isn't models

FriendliAI helps simplify the process of building AI-driven applications and speeds up your development process so that you can focus on creating innovative solutions.

## Get started

> To get started, you need to integrate a valid FriendliAI API token (aka Personal Access Token) to Weaviate for these integrations. Go to [FriendliAI](https://suite.friendli.ai/) to sign up and obtain an API key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started, you need to integrate a valid Friendli API token (aka Personal Access Token) to Weaviate for these integrations. Go to [Friendli Suite](https://suite.friendli.ai/) to sign up and obtain an API key.
```

---
title: FriendliAI + Weaviate
sidebar_position: 10
image: og/docs/integrations/provider_integrations_friendliai.jpg
# tags: ['model providers', 'friendliai']
---

import BetaPageNote from '../_includes/beta_pages.md';

<BetaPageNote />

:::info Added in `v1.27.0`
:::

FriendliAI offers a wide range of models for natural language processing and generation. Weaviate seamlessly integrates with FriendliAI's APIs, allowing users to leverage FriendliAI's models directly within the Weaviate database.

These integrations empower developers to build sophisticated AI-driven applications with ease.

## Integrations with FriendliAI

### Generative AI models for RAG

![Single prompt RAG integration generates individual outputs per search result](../_includes/integration_friendliai_rag_single.png)

FriendliAI's generative AI models can generate human-like text based on given prompts and contexts.

> [Weaviate's generative AI integration](./generative.md) enables users to perform retrieval augmented generation (RAG) directly within the Weaviate database. This combines Weaviate's efficient storage and fast retrieval capabilities with FriendliAI's generative AI models to generate personalized and context-aware responses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Weaviate's generative AI integration](./generative.md) enables users to perform Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) directly within the Weaviate database. This combines Weaviate's efficient storage and fast retrieval capabilities with FriendliAI's generative AI models to generate personalized and context-aware responses.
```

> [FriendliAI generative AI integration page](./generative.md)

Reviewer 2: I'm a bit confused about why this link suddenly appears on its own. Maybe add some descriptions? 
e.g. Visit [FriendliAI generative AI integration page](./generative.md) for more information on our integrations with FriendliAI.

## Summary

These integrations enable developers to leverage FriendliAI's powerful models directly within Weaviate.

> In turn, they simplify the process of building AI-driven applications to speed up your development process, so that you can focus on creating innovative solutions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
FriendliAI helps simplify the process of building AI-driven applications and speeds up your development process so that you can focus on creating innovative solutions.
```

## Get started

> You must provide a valid FriendliAI API key to Weaviate for these integrations. Go to [FriendliAI](https://suite.friendli.ai/) to sign up and obtain an API key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get started, you need to integrate a valid FriendliAI API key (aka Personal Access Token) to Weaviate for these integrations. Go to [FriendliAI](https://suite.friendli.ai/) to sign up and obtain an API key.
```

> To get started, you need to integrate a valid FriendliAI API key (aka Personal Access Token) to Weaviate for these integrations. Go to [FriendliAI](https://suite.friendli.ai/) to sign up and obtain an API key.

Reviewer: api key -> API token

> Then, go to the relevant integration page to learn how to configure Weaviate with the FriendliAI models and start using them in your applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, go to the relevant integrations page to learn how to configure Weaviate with the FriendliAI models and start using them in your applications.
```
